<h1 align="center">What is 1SRE?</h1></center>

1SRE is a platform to learn about anything OS, networking, or other core operational related content for <b>free</b>; the objective of this application is to give college students, experienced professionals, and whomever else the necesseary tools to become a Site Reliability Engineer (or anything similar).

There are a lot of platforms for (general) software engineers to build their confidence in programming (i.e.: [Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/), [HackerRank](https://www.hackerrank.com/), [NeetCode](https://neetcode.io/), etc); however, there's nothing that covers concepts about OS (operating systems), the Kernel, networks (TCP/UDP/POP/FTP/etc), Ansible, CI/CD, and other buzz words in operational roles. Sure, it's possible to find manuals that cover each of these topics in depth by simply Googling them, but the purpose of 1SRE is to combine everything and spit it out onto one <i>source of truth</i>.

If anything, at the end of the day, the platform is truly meant for myself. My kind of work revolves around reilability engineering and I'm typically learning more things as I go; one day, I thought to myself that it'd be nice to have a little website to go back to whenever I needed the information (either for work or for general interview prep)...

If you find anything that needs to be corrected, please submit a PR request and I'll look at it when I get the chance. Whatever I write about is through experience or research, but I know with technology constantly changing, there's always a better or efficient approach to a problem or question.

Lastly, thank you so much for giving this a read. I'm excited to work on this platform moving forward and I hope to make a significant impact within the community.