# Command Line Interface
`student@workstation ~]$`
- `student`
    - User that you're logged in as
- `workstation`
    - System name
- `~`
    - Directory you're working in
- `$`
    - Regular user
    - A root user would have `#` instead of `$`

The default user shell in Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) is the GNU Bourne-Again Shell (bash). The bash shell is an improved version of the original Bourne Shell (sh) on UNIX systems.

In Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9, if the graphical environment is available, then the login screen runs on the first virtual console, which is called `tty1` (text only terminal). Five additional text login prompts are available on virtual consoles two tty2 through six tty6.

The graphical environment starts on the first virtual console that a login session is not currently using. Normally, your graphical session replaces the login prompt on the second virtual console (tty2). However, if an active text login session (not just a login prompt) is using that console, then the next free virtual console is used instead.

The graphical login screen continues to run on the first virtual console (tty1). If you are already logged in to a graphical session, and log in as another user on the graphical login screen or use the Switch User menu item to switch users in the graphical environment without logging out, then another graphical environment is started for that user on the next free virtual console.

When you log out of a graphical environment, it exits the virtual console and the physical console automatically switches back to the graphical login screen on the first virtual console.

A headless server does not have a keyboard and display permanently connected to it. A data center might be filled with many racks of headless servers, and not providing each with a keyboard and display saves space and expense. For administrators to log in, a login prompt for a headless server might be provided by its serial console, which runs on a serial port that is connected to a networked console server for remote access.

The serial console is normally used to access the server if the server network card becomes misconfigured and logging to the server over the conventional network connection becomes impossible. Most of the time, however, headless servers are accessed by other means over the network for example using Virtual Network Computing (VNC) for running graphical interface on the target machine.

# Q/A
1. Which term describes the interpreter that executes commands that are typed as strings?
    - Shell
1. Which term describes the hardware display and keyboard to interact with a system?
    - Physical console
