A symbolic link, also known as a symlink or soft link, is a special type of file that points to another file or directory.

# Link Types
## Hard Links
You can think a hard link as an additional name for an existing file. Hard links are associating two or more file names with the same inode. You can create one or more hard links for a single file. Hard links cannot be created for directories and files on a different filesystem or partition.

## Soft Links
A soft link is something like a shortcut in Windows. It is an indirect pointer to a file or directory. Unlike a hard link, a symbolic link can point to a file or a directory on a different filesystem or partition.

# `ln` command
`ln` is a command-line utility for creating links between files. By default, the `ln` command creates hard links. To create a symbolic link, use the `-s` (`--symbolic`) option

The `ln` command syntax for creating symbolic links is as follows:
```
ln -s [OPTIONS] FILE LINK
```
- If both the `FILE` and `LINK` are given, `ln` will create a link from the file specified as the first argument (`FILE`) to the file specified as the second argument (`LINK`).
- If only one file is given as an argument or the second argument is a dot (`.`), ln will create a link to that file in the current working directory. The name of the symlink will be the same as the name of the file it points to

# Simplicity
Basically, think of this has shortcuts

[credit1](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-create-symbolic-links-in-linux-using-the-ln-command/)